---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/tyranny-of-dragons/events/12-the-sea-of-moving-ice/"}
---

Having left Waterdeep with [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^f9d438\|Nothinnel]] on a fully provisioned Skyreach for the Sea of Moving Ice, we introduced [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^438771\|Lance Bottomley]] and [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^ae8822\|Zog]] to Skyreach, its functions and to... [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^3b289e\|Twinkletoes]]. 
We arrived at the place where [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^476bbd\|Maccath]] had last reported from and spied the same tiered, cake-shaped iceberg. Next, we climbed down from Skyreach onto this icy island and came across an eerily abandoned village with numerous frozen blocks containing human, whale and seal corpses. While investigating the village, we came upon various structures including a large town hall, where we discovered a secret passage down below a chair.
We eventually found an iron door blocking the tunnel and were able to communicate with some people behind the door, trading fresh bread off Skyreach for information that led us to believe [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^476bbd\|Maccath]] had passed through and was likely to be found up the iceberg's peak.

We were warned that Old White Death had made its lair here, but we were reasonably confident that the lair should be empty enough given we had already slain [[Tyranny of Dragons/Events/10 Old White Death\|Old White Death]]. 
Entering this lair, we followed a spiralling path up to the higher levels, and found a room filled with rotting flesh. We then came upon a [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^dcb56e\|kobold]], who [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^7ee353\|Erevan]] cast *Geas* upon and took control of it. He led us up, with [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^95c41e\|Wizzleby]] as a prisoner, into their Order's base. [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^dcb56e\|He]] told us that there were (a) 12 kobolds in the order and (b) that Snok had seen [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^476bbd\|Maccath]] being dragged up to His lab by the order.
We attempted to sneak, then bluff our way through the kobold's barracks, and eventually beat our way upwards and finally came upon the lair of the Fleshmonger where we found [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^476bbd\|Maccath]] and several dragon corpses strung from the ceiling.
[[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^476bbd\|Maccath]] was chained but relatively content where she was, translating certain ancient texts, however, we were able to persuade her to return to Waterdeep with us by offering to carry those texts and certain other treasures that belonged to the Arcane Brotherhood.
We first battled a strange and huge amalgamation of flesh, and then proceeded upwards and fought the mind flayer known as the Fleshmonger. This was a difficult battle, and ended with [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^f9d438\|Nothinnel]]'s assistance, using water and lightning magic. 
However, as we then returned to Skyreach by a rope, [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^f9d438\|Nothinnel]] struck down [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^e22bdc\|Chad]] and slew him before transforming into the monstrous blue dragon he is and flying off, having successfully completed his revenge for the two blue half-dragons slain by [[Tyranny of Dragons/People#^e22bdc\|Chad]].

We finally returned to the [[Tyranny of Dragons/Events/13 The Metallic Dragons and the Defector\|Council]] with Maccath and the Brotherhood's treasures on Skyreach. 